Add blog post about binary artifact signing (#37639)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-XX-kubernetes-release-artifact-signing.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.26: We're now signing our binary release artifacts!"
date: 2022-12-6
slug: kubernetes-release-artifact-signing
---

**Author:** Sascha Grunert

The Kubernetes Special Interest Group (SIG) Release is proud to announce that we

> graduated the [Signing Release Artifacts Enhancement Proposal][kep] to _beta_.
> 
> [kep]: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are digitally signing all release artifacts, and that this aspect of Kubernetes has now reached
_beta_.
```

KEPs are usually footnotes. We want to signpost readers to docs, unless we're writing for the contributor blog.

Author: Moved it to the bottom to an "Additional resources" section

Signing artifacts provides end users a chance to verify the integrity of the
downloaded resource. It allows to mitigate man-in-the-middle attacks directly on
the client side and therefore ensures the trustfulness of the remote serving the
artifacts. The overall goal of the Signing Release Artifacts Enchnacment
Proposal (KEP) is to define the used tooling for signing all Kubernetes related
artifacts as well as providing a standard signing process for related projects

> (for example in [kubernetes-sigs][k-sigs]).

Reviewer: Again, de-emphasize the KEP in favor of the outcome.

[k-sigs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs

> We already sign all officially released container images from Kubernetes v1.24.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that this was alpha quality?

Author: Done :+1:

Now in v1.26, we added all **binary artifacts** to the signing process as well!
This means that now all [client, server and source tarballs][tarballs], [binary
artifacts][binaries], [Software Bills of Material (SBOMs)][sboms] as well as the
[build provenance][provenance] will be signed using [cosign][cosign].
Technically speaking, we now ship additional `*.sig` (signature) and `*.cert`
(certificate) files side by side to the artifacts for verifying their integrity.

[tarballs]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/release-1.26/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.26.md#downloads-for-v1260
[binaries]: https://gcsweb.k8s.io/gcs/kubernetes-release/release/v1.26.0/bin
[sboms]: https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.26.0/kubernetes-release.spdx
[provenance]: https://storage.googleapis.com/kubernetes-release/release/v1.26.0/provenance.json
[cosign]: https://github.com/sigstore/cosign

> To verify an artifact, for example `kubectl`, we just have to download the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify an artifact, for example `kubectl`, you can download the
```

signature and certificate alongside with the binary:

```shell
curl -sSfL https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl -o kubectl
curl -sSfL https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl.sig -o kubectl.sig

> curl -sSfL https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl.cert -o kubectl.cert

Reviewer: How is this more trustworthy than:
```
curl -sSfL https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl -o kubectl
```

If someone can nobble https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl then surely they can nobble https://dl.k8s.io/release/v1.26.0/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl

We either need to explain how to verify the certificate, or mention that right now that's not implemented.

Author: Added more explanation to the section.

```

> Then we can verify `kubectl` using `cosign`:

Reviewer 2: I'd consider adding a link to cosign here as well, so it's easy to navigate:

```suggestion
Then we can verify `kubectl` using [`cosign`][cosign]:
```

Author: Fixed :+1:

> Then we can verify `kubectl` using [`cosign`][cosign]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can verify `kubectl` using [`cosign`][cosign]:
```

```shell
cosign verify-blob kubectl --signature kubectl.sig --certificate kubectl.cert
```

All of the mentioned steps as well as how to verify container images are
outlined in the official documentation about how to [Verify Signed Kubernetes
Artifacts][docs]. In one of the next upcoming Kubernetes releases we will

> consider graduating the KEP to become Generally Available (GA). This would

Reviewer: Again, de-emphasize the KEP in favor of the outcome: talk about your hope for what the end user story looks like.

Author: :+1:

incorporate that all Kubernetes artifacts are signed excluding everything which

> gets build outside of the main Kubernetes repository. Beside that, we plan to

Reviewer: Is this really our ambition? I'd have thought we'd aim to sign every binary we publish.

Author: I removed that part of the sentence, it somehow raises questions we have no answer for yet.

use Kubernetes owned infrastructure for the signing (root trust) and
verification (transparency log) process.

[docs]: /docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-artifacts

We're looking forward to shipping more of those awesome features in future
Kubernetes releases. For example, we're working on the [SLSA Level 3 Compliance
in the Kubernetes Release Process][slsa] or the [Renaming of the kubernetes/kubernetes

> default branch name to `main`][kkmain].

Reviewer: I'd move this after the intro to SIG Release, so it's clear who you mean by “we”. Earlier in the article you'd used “we” to mean “the reader”.

Author: Alright, moved it down one paragraph.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes 1.26: We're now signing our binary release artifacts!"
date: 2022-12-6
slug: kubernetes-release-artifact-signing
---

**Author:** Sascha Grunert

The Kubernetes Special Interest Group (SIG) Release is proud to announce that we
graduated the [Signing Release Artifacts Enhancement Proposal][kep] to _beta_.

[kep]: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3031

Signing artifacts provides end users a chance to verify the integrity of the
downloaded resource. It allows to mitigate man-in-the-middle attacks directly on
the client side and therefore ensures the trustfulness of the remote serving the
artifacts. The overall goal of the Kubernetes Enhancement Proposal (KEP) is to

> define the used tooling for signing all Kubernetes related artifacts as well as

Author: Thanks, improved as suggested.

providing a standard signing process for related projects (for example in
[kubernetes-sigs][k-sigs]).

[k-sigs]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs

We already sign all officially released container images from Kubernetes v1.24.
Now in v1.26, we added all **binary artifacts** to the signing process as well!
This means that now all [client, server and source tarballs][tarballs], [binary
artifacts][binaries], [Software Bills of Material (SBOMs)][sboms] as well as the
[build provenance][provenance] will be signed using [cosign][cosign].
Technically speaking, we now ship additional `*.sig` (signature) and `*.cert`

> (certificate) files side by side to the artifact locations for verifying their

Author: Yep, fixed.
